- [Instructor] Tokens are sensitive pieces of information
that must be validated because they grant access
to the microservices that sit behind an API.
In a token-based security scheme, the token is held
by the client between requests
and it is passed to the resource server with each request.
The resource server cannot blindly trust
every token it receives because an attacker may have stolen
and tampered with it.
In order to make an access control decision,
a microservice must validate the authenticity of the token.
The measures used to verify a token
depend upon the type of the token.
If the token is a reference token,
it needs to be introspected at the authorization server.
Meaning we send it back to the authorization server
to learn more about the state of the token
or in simple terms, we learn if it's valid.
The OAuth 2.0 token Introspection Standard
is an extension of OAuth that governs this process.
If using introspection, it's best to centralize
this feature at the API gateway.
It's also important that the authorization server
has clustering and caching in place
so that it can scale to meet heavy loads.
Validating and protecting structured tokens is a much deeper
and more complicated space, which is defined
by the JSON object signing and encryption specifications.
These are also known as JOSE.
JOSE is a group of four specifications that work together
to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of a token
by providing instructions for how to sign and encrypt them.
JSON web token defines the token structure
and it's at the core of the JOSE specifications.
The JSON web signature specification
outlines the steps required to create the JWT signature
which further references the JSON web algorithms
and JSON web key standards.
If you need to encrypt the JWT to protect sensitive claims,
you can use the JSON web encryption standard.
The easiest way to understand the JOSE specifications
is to see them in action.
So we're going to use a tool provided by the jwt.io website
in order to take a closer look.
If we navigate down to the middle of the page,
we'll see the tool.
It allows us to encode and decode a JWT.
Now, if you take a look at the left side of the screen,
you'll see your first JWT.
And it's easy to tell it's a JWT
because of the first three characters EYJ.
JWTs are Base64 URL encoded.
So it's going to look like a random string of characters,
but EYJ is the Base64 encoding for an opening curly brace
and a quotation mark which are the characters
that all JWTs start with.
So if you see that, you're most likely working with a JWT.
Now, if we look at this dropdown at the top of the page,
you're going to see a list of algorithms.
These come from the JSON Web algorithm specification
and these are the options that we have for signing the JWT.
In general, each of the algorithms uses the same computation
to create the signature with just some different inputs.
It takes the header and Base64 URL encodes it,
concatenates it with a period.
And then Base64 URL encodes the payload,
and concatenates that.
It then takes a key which it uses for the algorithm
that computes the signature
and that gets appended to the end of the JWT.
Let's take a look at this in action.
So we're going to use the HS256 algorithm that is specified
at the top of the page by default.
This is a symmetric key algorithm.
So it's going to use the same key
in order to create the signature
as it's going to use to verify it.
So let's just enter a really simple key here.
I'm going to name it Mykey
and then I'm going to change the JWT just a little bit.
You'll notice it's changing on the left-hand side
as it creates the new JWT.
So let's put my name there.
You can put yours if you would like.
But in the end, we wind up with this new token.
Go ahead and copy that token.
Don't forget your key
and then hit the refresh key.
So a JWT allows us to verify that the token
has not been tampered with, as it goes
from one party to another.
So let's imagine that we're the party receiving this JWT.
And let's say that we put the wrong key in here.
And then we paste the JWT into the tool.
You'll notice at the bottom, it's going to alert us
to the fact that the signature is invalid.
So let's run this scenario again
and I'm going to refresh the page
and then hopefully I'll remember my key.
So let's put it into the bottom of the page
where the signature is verified.
And now I'm going to go ahead
and paste the JWT one more time.
You'll notice this time, the signature verifies.
Now, depending upon which algorithm you use,
you might need a different key.
So if we take a look at an RS256 algorithm
you'll notice it's going to look
for a public and private key.
So you'll need those to create the signature.
Now, if you receive this JWT, you're going to need
the public key in order to verify the signature.
And one way that's provided by an identity provider
is through a JSON web key set that's typically exposed
via an endpoint.
We can take a look at an example.
This is the JSON web key set from Auth0
from one of the demonstrations they provide.
Now, it looks a little bit cryptic.
So what I'm going to do, is take the JSON
and go over to a lina.
And then here, I'm going to validate the JSON.
And you'll notice that we get this array of keys.
So this is a JSON web key set and inside that array,
is a JSON web key.
These are all specified in the specifications
that accompany JOSE.
If you receive a JWT and you have the JSON web key set,
you can go ahead and select the corresponding key
and use that to verify the signature
to ensure the JWT hasn't been tampered with.